		Computers (Technology) 1900-1939

During the first years of the 20th century- many innovations began and many people who would create these innovations in technology were born.

In 1900 Nikola Tesla invented the spread spectrum.

What is the spread spectrum?

“In telecommunications, spread spectrum refers to when a signal, generated in one bandwidth, is spread across several frequencies to create a signal with a wider bandwidth. Doing this can result in more secure communications, a resistance to interference and jamming, as well as a lower chance of detection by another source. It can also benefit satellite downlinks by limiting power flux density.” - Computer Hope. 


This could have or most likely helped invent the telegraph in 1901. 

IBM was founded in 1911, and later to be the ones to produce the first Personal Computers (PC).

The most important inventions during this time were both morse code and the spread spectrum as these are two inventions that lead us to Telephones (Telephones first used in 1915)and later cell phones. 

Of course without these we wouldn’t have cell phones, or even the internet as the internet comes from a phone line (Dial-Up in the early days).


-Interview-
I interviewed leo and here is what he had to say:
The development or radio and television in the first half of the 20th century has made dramatically sped up the spreading of information across the world. However, it also allowed powerful people to spread propaganda with ease. Such people were Hitler and Joseph Goebbels, who spread propaganda against Jews, and convinced their people that a war was necessary for their success - leading to WW2. This affected me because if not for this propaganda, I wouldn't have had so many great-grandparents who perished in the war.




If I was to present let’s say the Telegraph I would say “Look at this amazing Message Transporter device, no postage required, and much faster than a regular stamped letter!”.










Sources:

http://www.computerhope.com/history/190040.htm  Computer Hope on the general idea of what was invented- and the definition of spread spectrum. 
