History of Computers 1940-1969

From the 1940’s till the end of the 1960’s the revolution to develop new technology was sparked by WW2. How was this? This was because, the countries in this World War were wanting to spy, and get information. While old fashioned tactics may have worked back in the 1700’s it was much harder to that in the modern era. 

While there were many inventions and innovations, one of the most noting is what brings us to where we are today, and that would be in the late 60’s (1969 to be exact) - which is the internet. The internet we use today came in the 90’s but this was the first internet. It was used by the military for various things, transferring information, communicating etc.

Another notable invention was one of the first Personal Computers. No it was not a PC at all. It was a business machine, released by IBM- this was called CICS- Customer Information Control System. To put it much simpler it was a “DOS” version of Excel- you could put info in/out (delete it), search or look up (not like modern probably was in Alphabetical order as databases were not really in reality yet). 
While IBM had many of these type machines in the past this one was the biggest innovation ever.

Now the biggest question: Who invented the “Internet” ? 

 While many sources have opinions- I have not found conclusive evidence that just one person created this innovation of a lifetime. However, what is known is that ARPAnet was the first ones to launch the “internet”, and as mentioned earlier funded by the Department of Defense. 

If this were not here today, we would be in big trouble. 

The internet as we know it today wouldn’t exist, cellphones (smartphones at least) would not exist. Try to imagine the 21st century without these inventions.


I have written my own thoughts of this era. 

I think that if we didn’t have these inventions today we wouldn’t be able to make any advancements in technology. In each era or “age” e.g. Stone age, technology was innovated. Not always electronics, but down to the simplest things, such as a stone axe or  iron tools, or the wheel. Before the wheel, people didn’t get on wagon they rode a horse or walked. Without these, our quality of life wouldn’t be as high- as to compared to when the first stone tools or metal tools were invented. 



Sources

ComputerHistory.org http://www.computerhistory.org/timeline/  (see the 40’s trough 60’s for information I gained)

History Channel Official Website. Who invented the internet? http://www.history.com/news/ask-history/who-invented-the-internet 
