Computer History 1970-1999

The 70’s, 80’s and 90’s all the way up to now, have brought technology from a seed to a sprout. 

The first invention of this time period, was the ATM- it would change banking forever. While it was first introduced in the late 60’s it wasn’t fully innovated enough for consumer use till the 1970’s. 

The biggest notable invention of this time was Windows! (It was MS-DOS at this time but was later renamed to windows!!)

Windows began in the early 80’s, and was invented by Bill Gates. The early years of windows wasn’t much, so I will fast forward to Windows 95. Windows 95 was a version of Windows XP but much simpler, it didn’t have some of the functionality of XP nor the visual component. 

While Mac OS X and the popular Open source OS Linux came around in the wake of this newly innovation- Windows was in the lead. And was also endorsed by IBM. 


Windows as well as the other OS there are have brought us to our modern age, they brought the PC to nearly every home in the USA. This also sparked the PC game age.

Without this technology we would still be using the old machines, that weren’t made for easy home use. 

This invention allowed anyone, and any age to use a computer. Without these inventions we wouldn’t have the technological advances we have today, nor the life saving machines, many of which run using linux. 

Bill Gates, who I will just for this article's sake, call the inventor of the modern PC operating system, was a computer nerd, who created MS-DOS with his partner, and later become CEO of Microsoft. 


I decided to comment my thoughts of the quality of life this technology innovation has brought us.

Windows or any OS has brought Life saving devices into our lives. The AED for example, are ran on a OS to regulate how much shock to give to a person's heart doesn’t seem like much eh? Shocking too much or not enough could mean a life is in jeopardy that is how much this innovation/invention impacts our quality of life. 




Sources

Microsoft History (computer hope) http://www.computerhope.com/history/windows.htm

History of computers 1970 to 1999 - ComputerHistory.org, go to the 70’s 80’s and 90’s to see my source of information http://www.computerhistory.org/timeline/

